Kafka is a distributed event streaming platform that follows a publish-subscribe model. Producers send messages to topics, which are divided into partitions for scalability. Each partition has a leader and replicas for fault tolerance.
Producers write data to the leader, and it replicates to followers. Based on acknowledgment configuration, Kafka confirms the write.
Consumers read data from partitions using offsets, and within a consumer group, each partition is consumed by only one consumer to ensure parallel processing.
In our project, we use Kafka to stream hold events captured via CDC, ensuring reliable and scalable communication between systems.

Producer Kafka ki message send chesthundi
Kafka topic lo store chesthundi
Topic → partitions ga divide avthundi (parallel processing kosam)
Each partition ki leader + replicas untayi
Producer always leader partition ki write chesthundi
Leader data ni replicas ki replicate chesthundi
Once replication success (based on ACK config), Kafka confirms write
Consumer group lo unna consumers partitions ni read chestharu
Offset maintain chesi next message ekkada nundi read cheyalo decide chestharu


2. How Avro works (Step-by-step)

We create an Avro schema file (.avsc) defining the fields
Using Avro plugin, Java classes are generated at build time
We use those generated classes to create event objects
Kafka producer serializes the object into binary format
Consumer deserializes using the same schema
{
  "type": "record",
  "name": "HoldEvent",
  "namespace": "com.example",
  "fields": [
    {"name": "accountId", "type": "string"},
    {"name": "amount", "type": "double"},
    {"name": "status", "type": "string"}
  ]
}
spring:
  kafka:
    producer:
      key-serializer: org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringSerializer
      value-serializer: io.confluent.kafka.serializers.KafkaAvroSerializer
We configure serializer in YAML so that KafkaTemplate knows how to convert Java objects into a format that can be sent over Kafka.
Since we use Avro, we use KafkaAvroSerializer to convert objects into binary format.

memory leaks how to overcome..?
Kafka itself does not usually cause memory leaks, but memory issues can arise due to improper producer or consumer configurations. For example, large message sizes, high batching, or slow consumers can lead to memory pressure.
We can overcome this by tuning producer configurations like batch size and buffer memory, ensuring efficient consumer processing, and monitoring system performance.
In our project, we use Avro for lightweight messages and Cassandra for persistence to avoid memory-related issues
